Welcome back and this lesson we need to do something with the data that's being returned back.
So it looks like we're getting 10 items and we're getting an array with variations here so the top one
here just tells us back our search term and some additional terms to search for the next one gives us
some information for those terms.
And then lastly we've got the links to find out more details about those terms so we can make use of
all of this data and what we want to do is we want to loop through all four of these different items
here that are contained within the array and then from these arrays Let's just grab the first item so
whatever the index zero is.
So that's what we want to output on our page.
And this is a little bit of a challenge but what I want you to do is think about how we can output how
we can loop through the array get all of this information and then output it within our Web page.
So it's open up her editor and jump in and start doing some javascript coding so I can get rid of these
console logs and over here so this is where we're actually returning back that response information
from that function that we created.
So this is where we are ideally want to do something with that data and also in preparation for output.
Let's stop object up as well.
So document.
And we can use query selector.
We could also use get element by ID.
So I'm going to grab output and we're using query selector.
Make sure that if it's an ID you use the hash.
If it's a class use the dot.
If it's just a tag name they just use the regular tag name.
And we do want to capture that entire element content in an object so that we can output that information
directly on our Web page.
So now that we're getting a response here we need to loop through that response.
So let's do something with that.
We use a for loop but set up variable x and in in response console log out these values.
Before we try to place that on our Web page and we're going to console log out the value of x so x response.
So we're grabbing.
We know that this is an array and we've got a number of array items.
So by index an X is going to serve as the index value or we can first.
Let's let's just put X so that you can see what this is going to look like.
And before we go out there we've got to make sure that we're outputting response so let's try that out.
So refresh search and we see we've got the index values so X is essentially just the index value.
So this is the same thing that we would get if we did four loops so variable x equals zero increment
X by 1 every time we iterate through a different item.
So this we know that if we do response.
So I missed it there.
And we use X as our index value and we refresh.
We get all of this information coming out.
So these are arrays as well.
And we only want to return back maybe that first item that's available within that array.
So we see that we get three different arrays and we've got javascript there.
So let's try this now.
And because these are all arrays so the format is fairly standard.
We just want to grab the first one we get javascript we get information about javascript and the link.
And notice we've got a problem here with the first one because this one wasn't in an array format.
And you're going to get this sometimes when you're working with different API is that you've got to
massage it a little bit and just make it work.
So we know that if X is zero then we just grab the value of x so we see that that's not going to work.
So let's try a few different things so we can do a length.
We need a way to distinguish the different streams.
So we see that when we do length they all come back as 10.
What if we do type of type of response X refresh and we see the first one is a string the other three
are objects.
So that will work.
So now we can form a condition around it so we found our way to distinguish the two.
So let's create a variable collet holder and we're going to check we're going to do a ternary operator
so we're going to check to see if the type of is string.
And if this is true then what we want to do open this up bigger.
So if the type of is string then what we want to do with it is we're fine with it.
We don't have to get the first item there so we're just going to return back response of X and if it's
not the string then we want to grab that first item in the array and then let's put holder.
Just to make sure that everything is good before we try to put it again into our web page.
So let's go back out.
Refresh search for Javascript.
So our first one is javascript.
Second one is returning back information and we see that those two first ones are the same actually.
So we don't even need to make use of that first one.
So we could just completely skip it altogether or we could append a two or each to Malthus's number
of different options here.
At this point.
So let's go ahead and we'll keep that one and we could also do a loop starting at 1.
If we are sure that we're not returning back anything of value.
But let's keep it this way.
And then of course you can you can update it as needed.
So we're ready to output some content.
We've set up our output element which is all ready to receive that information.
I'm going to clean this up a bit.
So it's a little bit more readable.
So over here we're here this is where we're calling our function.
We're getting our response content.
We're looping through that response content.
And if it's a string value then we're just returning it as is.
If it's an array or if it's an object then we're grabbing that first item by the index and then we're
just opening and Holder.
So we are ready to make some updates.
So first of all let's do output.
H to M-L and make this big.
We'll do H-2 and we know what the search term is because we've got a search term that we're grabbing
from the input so we can just use that variable holder that we've created in H HMO and we're going to
concatenate it together with whatever is already existing there so that search term will be there and
we can add in our content because we know that this is all within a string format and div.
So there we go.
And we can also add in a class if we want.
So if we want to return it in some type of different nice format make it look different turn make it
look better so we can use a class as well and we'll call it output data output.
We can go up to our style let's add some styling there so padding 10 picks border make it fairly late.
Let's see what this looks like now.
So go back refresh and now we should get some content being shown over here.
So there we go.
So search term javascript we get javascript javascript information both javascript and you are able
to link to that so great we are ready to move on to our next step and that's going to be hooking up
YouTube.
So we ultimately want all of this to show up and then down below let's show up for links to videos.
We're going to just use the thumbnails that are returned back from YouTube.
So now I want you to build the suit within your own application.
Try it.
Make sure it's working.
Make sure that you're able to get that response information and then output it within your two Mel page.
So coming up is YouTube and that's going to be really exciting.